in 1967 during the kisangani mutinies
a virus called motava which causes a
deadly fever
is discovered in the african jungle to
keep the virus a secret
us army officers donald mcclintock and
billy ford destroy the camp where
soldiers were infected
28 years later colonel sam daniels
a usa mri id virologist
is sent to investigate an outbreak in
zayer
he and his crew lieutenant colonel casey
schuler and new recruit major salt
gather information and return to the
united states
ford now a brigadier general and
daniel's superior
officer dismisses the latter's fears
that the virus will spread
a white-headed capuchin monkey that is
host to the virus
is smuggled into the country james
jimbo scott a worker at an animal
testing laboratory
is infected when he steals the monkey to
sell on the black market
jimbo fails to sell the monkey to rudy
alvarez who also becomes infected
a pet store owner in the coastal
california village of cedar creek
after releasing the monkey in the woods
outside of the nearby community of
palisades
he develops symptoms on a flight to
boston and infects his girlfriend
alice their illness is investigated by
dr roberta keough
a cdc scientist and daniel's ex-wife
jimbo alice and rudy die but
keo determines that no one else in
boston was infected
a hospital technician in cedar creek is
infected when he accidentally breaks the
vial of rudy's blood
the virus quickly mutates into a strain
capable of spreading like influenza
becoming airborne and causing a number
of people to be infected in a movie
theater
daniels flies to cedar creek against
ford's orders
joining keo's team with schuler and salt
as they begin a search for the monkey
the army quarantines the town and
imposes martial law schuler is infected
when his suit tears and keo
accidentally sticks herself with a
contaminated needle while treating him
when ford provides an experimental serum
which cures the original strain
daniels realizes that his superiors were
aware of the virus before the outbreak
daniels learns about operation clean
sweep
a plan for the military to contain the
virus by bombing cedar creek
incinerating the town and its residents
ostensibly to prevent motaba's expansion
to pandemic proportions
however mcclintock now a major general
plans to use the operation to conceal
the mutated virus existence so the
original strain can be preserved for use
as a biological weapon
to prevent daniels from finding a cure
mcclintock orders him arrested for
carrying the virus
daniels escapes before he and salt fly a
helicopter to the ship at sea which
carried the monkey
daniels obtains a picture of the monkey
and releases it to the media
a palisades resident mrs jeffries
realizes that her daughter kate has been
playing with the monkey
which she named betsy and calls the cdc
daniels and salt arrive at the jeffries
house where salt tranquilizes betsy
after kate coaxes her out of hiding in
the woods nearby
when he learns from daniels about
betsy's capture
ford delays the bombing once back in
cedar creek
salt mixes betsy's antibodies with
ford's serum to create an antiserum
although schuler has died they save keo
mcclintock returns to base and resumes
operation
clean sweep refusing to listen to ford
daniels and salt fly their helicopter
directly into the path of the bomber's
approach to its target
with ford's help daniels persuades the
bomber's flight crew to detonate the
bomb over water and spare the town
before mcclintock can order another
bombing ford relieves him of command and
orders his arrest
daniels and keo reconcile as cedar
creek's residents are cured
movie ends in that scene please like
share and subscribe